# PythonProjects2022

Note: 

Although the 4 projects are cross-platform, some bugs (mostly concerning GUI) are still noticeable in unix systems, preventing maximum intended functionality. No bugs detected in Windows Platform. A "Dependences.txt" file is included in every project's folder with required modules/libraries that are not by default included in Python core.

Project 4
=========
Object oriented GUI Blackjack program with 2 modes. User can switch between modes via "Preferences" tab.

In "Normal Blackjack Mode" the user can play as player against the computer (dealer). Dealer must draw to 16 and stand on 17. A simple ace value (1 or 11) choice algorithm is included, that decides ace's value based on each player’s current sum. Blackjack pays 3 to 2 and only black chips (100$) are available. Player always starts with 20 chips.  

In “Statistics Mode” the computer plays against itself 100 rounds (Both player and dealer must draw to 16 and stand on 17). After each round the “Stats Board” is updated by adding last round’s result. The user can specifically view each round's result and distributed cards via “History Panel”.  If “Interfere with deck shuffling” option is selected in “Preferences” then the player always starts with J, Q, K or 10 and the dealer never with one of the above, usually altering stats in favor of the player. (This option is available only for “Statistics Mode”)

Project 6
=========
Object oriented GUI Chess program. There is a total of 100 rounds. In each round a white bishop, a white rook and a black queen are randomly placed on the chessboard (no overlapping positions). If one of the white pieces can move and capture the black queen, White Player gets 1 point. If both white pieces can simultaneously move and capture the black queen, White Player gets 2 points. If the black queen can move and capture one of the white pieces, Black Player gets 1 point. If the black queen can move and capture both white pieces, Black Player gets 2 points. After each round the “Stats Board” containing each player’s total points is updated. Furthermore, the user can access each round’s position individually via “History Panel”.

Project 9
=========
Object oriented GUI program that accepts an ascii txt file as input, converts each ascii character to its corresponding 7-digits binary value and finds the number of maximum consecutives 0’s and the number of maximum consecutives 1’s. 

The user can select an ascii txt file via the “Browse Files” button which opens a file explorer window. After that the content of the file is displayed inside the text field. As soon as the “Convert ASCII Text to Binary” button is clicked the content of the txt file is converted and exported to “%projectfolder%/exported/ “. The user has the option to export binary result with space delimiter between binary numbers for optimum usability. After the successful conversion to binary the program can find consecutive digits as described above (space delimiter is ignored if enabled) by clicking the button with the search icon. 

A simple "Text to ASCII" converter is included in “%projectfolder%/utilities/ “ folder for txt files with non-ASCII characters.

Project 11
==========
Object oriented GUI random number generator, powered by https://www.cloudflare.com/en-gb/leagueofentropy/ service.  The program displays the latest random number generated by the service with the click of the appropriate button. The user has the option to copy displayed number to clipboard. The program is also capable of gathering the x (default: 20, max: 300) last random numbers provided by the service, concatenate them to hexadecimal text string and calculate this text’s entropy (Shannon's entropy) by clicking the appropriate buttons. The user has the option to copy hexadecimal text string to clipboard. 

The use of a lava lamp video as background is inspired by Cloudflare’s LavaRand service which is a member of the League Of Entropy. 

In the “Preferences” tab the user can:
1. Determine the x last numbers that the program is going to concatenate to hex string.
2. Change the number system (bin/dec/hex) of the displayed random numbers (by default service provides hex numbers)
3. Change lava lamp’s color.  
